ROAST V4.0 (codename: Dyker Heights) -- 2025/08/xx:

Replaced the MultiPriors by the Multiaxial (a different CNN) as the segmentation engine that is better and fully independent from SPM, for modeling heads with abnormal anatomies (e.g. lesions).

Related to this, NiftyReg is now used for registration when the Multiaxial is called for segmentation.

Added an interactive GUI for users to check and modify registration, especially for heads with abnormal anatomies where automated registration may fail.

Improved visualization.

Output the mri2mni matrix so that users can use it for post-processing.


ROAST V3.5 (codename: Dumbo) -- 2024/04/25:

Added the MultiPriors (a deep CNN) as the segmentation engine, so that users can model heads with abnormal anatomies (e.g. lesions).

Changed some variable names related to segmentation for better readability.

Fixed a glitch in the code of electrode placement.

Adjusted the locations of the additional two rows of electrodes in the 10-05 layout.

Removed 10 electrodes in the EGI layout that fall on the ears and eyes.

capInfo.xls was saved as capInfo.xlsx.

Added a function to set the headers of the MRI and segmentation masks so that their voxel-to-world mapping directly maps to the MNI space.

Added code to handle MRIs with nonzero qform in their header.

Upgraded the sliceshow() function for better visualization of slices in a 3D volume.


ROAST V3.0 (codename: Hell's Kitchen) -- 2019/09/02:

Added a feature in ROAST main function roast() so that users can generate the data (lead field) for running targeted TES.

Introduced a new main function roast_target() for doing targeted TES. Users can also use the MNI coordinates for targeting.

Enforce the RAS rule for all the input data to roast(). This prevents a potential bug in the orientation option ('elecOri') for pad electrodes in roast(), which was not paid attention to previously if NON-RAS head is modeled. This rule also makes the orientation option ('orient') for roast_target() to work well.

Make sliceshow() be able to show both the voxel and MNI coordinates when users click at different locations.

Changed the default mesh options to generate slightly higher-resolution mesh.

Updated the free solver getDP from version 2.11.2 to version 3.2.0.

Fixed a potential bug if users want to place BioSemi electrodes (the four 10/10 electrodes in BioSemi layout that aid to place BioSemi electrodes have the same names as those in 10/10 system, which may cause complication in data management). Fixed a bug in data management when users are using only the neck electrodes and/or the customized electrodes.

Added the EGI HCGSN 256-channel system as another option for 'capType'. Now users can place any electrodes following the EGI layout by specifying 'capType','egi' (thanks to github user iPsych).

Fixed a bug when calling getDP solver when data are stored in folders with spaces in the folder name (thanks to github user bartkrekelberg).

Made outputs from ROAST compatible with Soterix software HD-Explore and HD-Targets (purchased separately).


ROAST V2.7.1 (codename: Hamilton Heights update 2) -- 2019/03/13:
Fixed a glitch. It's only related to running simulations on MRIs that are not in 1 mm isotropic resolution.


ROAST V2.7 (codename: Hamilton Heights update 1)-- 2018/09/10:
Upgraded SPM8 to SPM12, with all customized code in SPM8 transferred into SPM12. Now Mac users will not have any problems when running ROAST under Matlab version 2017 and later.


ROAST V2.6 (codename: Hamilton Heights) -- 2018/07/05:

Improved disc and ring placement so that for large electrodes, gel can be fully filled between scalp surface and the electrodes.

Memory improvement when placing big electrodes.

Allow zero-padding on New York head, but prevent users from resampling New York head to 1 mm resolution.

Fixed the problem that iso2mesh will crash on 64-bit Windows for large models.

Fixed a bug on removing connected objects in segmentation touch-up routine.

Combined 6 mask files into one single color file, so that users can save disk space, and also New York head can be uploaded to github.

Added function of saving all the results in the NIFTI format.

Improved the logic for labeling different electrodes, so that some electrode montages can now be simulated (cannot be done under the old labeling logic).

Model each electrode/gel as a separate mask, so that they can be assigned to different conductivity values (e.g. different conductivities for pad vs. disc).

Added logic to detect if neighboring electrodes are overlapping each other. Throw out errors if they overlap.

Introduced a new function (reviewRes.m) with simpler interface to review ROAST results, and it allows users to choose which tissue to display.

Added display of flow of electric field by small arrows in the slice show.

Opened conductivities as user options.

Can output a 3D rendering of electrode placement result, before building the FEM model.


ROAST V2.1 (codename: Manhattanville update) -- 2018/05/16:

Fixed a bug on placing electrodes on non-1mm data

Added resampling and zero-padding options

Can align T2 automatically if it's not aligned with T1


ROAST V2.0 (codename: Manhattanville) -- 2018/05/01:

Major feature added: costumized electrode placement. Users can specify any electrode from EEG 10/20, 10/10, 10/05 and BioSemi-256 system, and even electrodes at customized locations. They can customize the shape, size and orientation (only for pad electrode) of each electrode individually.

Can use T2 to help segmentation.

Can control mesh options of iso2mesh.

Can give each simulation a customized tag.

The New York head is added.

Can handle non-1mm resolution MRI and non-RAS MRI.

Improved the visualization function.


ROAST V1.1 (codename: Chelsea update) -- 2017/12/11:

Fixed a bug in the 3D rendering using iso2mesh functions.

Added visualization of stimulation electrodes in the 3D rendering.


ROAST V1.0 (codename: Chelsea) -- 2017/11/10:

Users now can do customized montage instead of just bipolar configurations.

Added mechanisms to detect if each step is done and start from the first undone step.

Added a solution to name the files properly for the convenience of managing different simulations.


ROAST V0.3 (codename: NoHo) -- 2017/11/10:

Added individual head as another example; added drawnow; fixed an issue when calling solver if directory name has space character; fixed an issue in visualizeRes() about converting world coord to voxel coord; completely changed the method for generating 3D rendering (use plotmesh in iso2mesh toolbox instead of GIFTI object, which is buggy).


ROAST V0.2 (codename: SoHo) -- 2017/11/06:

Only supports bipolar config, and only place the user-specified electrodes; improved visualization functions; suppressed some warning messages.


ROAST V0.1 (codename: Nolita) -- 2017/11/01:

Placing all the 74 electrodes at once and then solve the user-specified bipolar config.
